Uh, good morning everyone.
Sorry for the delay. I had a technical difficulty with Zoom.
Yeah, good morning, sir.
Uh, you're doing fine. Yes. Yes, sir.
Sir. Yeah. Okay.
So, uh, like, uh, today
we'll be having a little bit discussion like, uh,
that is like how, uh, this chase
and everything, we usually play with a two player thing,
but when we are playing against some computers,
they are like very hard to beat, to play any other game.
Those are very easy, but for the chase, uh, this, uh,
things actually works.
So what is happening, yeah, uh,
that multiple techniques are there.
That is actually, you know, one
of the AI techniques we can say, uh, like, uh,
that initiated like how we can make our systems
a little bit smarter compared to the normal usage.
So in those scenarios, we opt in some algorithms where,
uh, they should actually reach to their goal, state goal,
state winning equation, whether that's a chess game, whether
that's ATO game, whether there's some, uh,
puzzle solving problem, whether
that's a main solving problem, whether that's, uh, uh,
like your, uh, searching some locations from your place
to some other city,
35 different location in which path you should be taking.
That's, that's on an optimal place.
Or like, uh, you are doing some kind of searching algorithms
where like you are extracting information from huge amount
of data sets and servers.
So these are all actually done through some kind algorithms
where we are making the system a little bit smart
with the help of this ai, uh, side of things.
So we are going into little bit of, uh,
like searching techniques.
Okay? I will share the screen
and, uh, we'll go through one by one.
Okay? So,
Okay, let me open Google map.
So lemme show you one example,
Okay?
Here, suppose my place is currently, uh, uh,
so here from this place, I want to go to hva.
Okay?
I click on the direction,
choose suppose.
Yeah,
suppose
Okay, Now you are able to see multiple,
you know, uh, pathways.
So we are having one pathway, second pathway, third pathway,
three, uh, you know, directions are there.
So AI systems are basically, they're in a state,
state was an initial state,
some intermediate state, and some goals.
So in this case, one example being the initial state,
we're having this one, the colony, uh, that we're talking,
uh, from this version, we want to go to the hydro city.
Now we are having multiple pathways.
Now, which part is the best one? How it is determined.
And all these are done through some, uh, algorithm
that is the searching algorithms.
Those were actually belong from the CS background.
They might have heard about
or go, went through B, F, S and bfs.
Uh, have we gone through, through these algorithms B
for search and depth for search?
Yes, sir. Yes sir. BFSD, Fs. So basically, yes. Yeah.
So basically each
of the systems are having some kind of position.
I'm currently at my location that is the initial state.
My goal is state is to reach to the, uh, hydro airport
and intermediate, wherever I go from whichever route I take,
those will be my intermediate state.
And each of the state will be crosscheck, whether
that's a bold state or not.
Okay? So we can have like hundreds of pathways.
We can explore one by one post, uh, like, uh,
so particular following pattern.
And those will take a huge amount of time.
Otherwise, we can have exchange information.
Suppose, um, uh, the like, uh, you know, the average speed
of the road or like
what is the traffic condition in the road?
Uh, are there any like portholes or all those things,
or whether is there any that's a national, uh, you know,
highway or straight highway or normal road,
or there's an issue of like a tool.
Uh, all these factors we can into one, you know,
multiple path and we can cross check what is the most,
you know, path to take, whether that's like optimal on the,
that's like tool or optimal under the time.
And also, uh, avoiding traffic and all.
Now we'll go through one by one.
So today we are having this discussion orders, uh,
you know, searching techniques.
It's cool and how this computers actually go through each
of the algorithms and like, uh, makes the sense out of it.
Let's just understand those.
So the such strategies in ai, basically, uh,
navigation from one step to the goal state,
that might be game, that might be
your, you know, navigation.
That might be your, uh, uh, some, uh, searching techniques
or that might be suppose your, uh,
prompting some kind like input and expecting some output
and like the satisfactory state where the AI can say,
yeah, that is the goal.
That user has demanded, I have reached
that particular state.
Okay? So the basic idea is the
agents who are having goal, goal-based, you know, uh,
fundamental idea in each of the state, wherever they are,
initial state, mid state,
they will be continuously checking whether they have reached
the goal state or not, okay?
They reached the goal state or not.
For these things, we are having two searching algorithms.
One is uninformed search, okay?
And other is informed search.
In the uninformed search, okay?
Basically, it's a blind searching technique
where you have no clue about like in
which way you have to go.
Suppose, uh, as a human, if I ask you, like you want
to see the him, uh, like, uh, you know, mountains
and all, so what's the basic ideal?
Have I should like, move towards north direction?
So I'll be able to reach some kind of Himalayas.
Then I'll be able to explore the, you know, uh, mountains.
I'll be able to see, reach this.
Now the idea is that we are having some kind information
that Himalaya is on the northern parts.
We are going towards that. But if you're on the blind
means the uninformed.
So you'll be exploring each
of the square kilometer in your region
and expanding, you know, in some kind of pattern,
maybe circular, maybe GridWise.
Then certainly after exploring each of the parts, wherever
that is applicable than you, uh,
like you'll be finally reaching to your destination.
So it is more time consuming in a way.
Blind search techniques don't give you any pointers in which
direction you should be going for.
Okay? Now the example being we are
having the breakfast search.
Okay? Now, one example being
suppose the s is the initial state
where you are currently at.
So your home location
and A, B, C, D, E, if each
of the locations are being status, some kind of suppose, uh,
state is there, okay?
From one, uh, state, suppose you are from, uh,
you are moving to uh, uh, mother Mara, you know, uh,
other native states and all.
And finally, your, uh, goal is to reach
to the like high higher points, G suppose G is a state
that is that state I want to reach.
So one after other state want to explore
for the mountains you are having unknown from such,
you don't have any clue, any like prior idea
where the mountains can be,
but just you heard mountains are, there goes a snow cap.
So in this, uh, you know, blind search techniques
where you have no clue about which state to explore
and all basically in the break, first we go layer by layer.
Layer by layer means these actually information are, uh,
you know, sorted by tree.
Tree as in suppose one, the initial state,
what are the states I can like, uh, access, suppose
neighboring states, I can explore that is a ma
that I can explore.
Uh, ana, maybe I, I can explode on the south side, uh,
Kerala, these are the states I can explore.
So s initial state from this state, I can move
to three different states.
So I will have three child subs, right?
So A, B, C, in the case of Mara, uh, you know, Ana
and Carella, these kind of states I'll be having
from these three states, I'll be able to move
to further more states,
which are connected native neighboring states.
So they'll have more choice.
So each of the state is connect to the most, you know, uh,
connected states somehow.
So these are like one
of the states I'm exploring layer value.
So what happens in the break for search,
you initially search within your own state, okay?
Whether that's a satisfactory goal
or not, you're not finding the, like any mountain,
you're moving toward the no near running state, whatever,
the next immediate state.
So you explore the level wise.
So A and B, if you are satisfied with
that, that is gold state.
You have reached, you close the program,
but if you are not satisfied, whatever the connected states
of A and B, then you'll find the d, EF,
that those are the connected state
and those you'll expect on this layer.
If you're finding that one, that is fine.
If you're not finding, then you'll go to the next layer.
Next, next layer. Finally, until you reach the goal state,
that is the with first search.
So one thing that is there, it will find you the solution.
It might take like ages, you might become old, okay?
But eventually reach the goal state and you'll explore.
All of the ebook are mostly possible states
that you have to go through.
So that is one of the algorithm
that is the uninformed search
where we don't give you any pointers,
basically layer by layers.
You search everything, whether that's a gold state or not.
Likewise, we are having dip for search in this one.
Instead of going layer by layer, we directly go
to the depth, depth as in from S to a, A to D, D
to C, like in depth will move.
Okay? Once you explore that is like each of the state A, uh,
from A to S to A, is that a goal state?
No A to D, whether that's supposed state, no D two C,
whether that's supposed no, then it'll traverses back.
So it having a thing, uh, like a fundamental idea
that is like backtracking.
So it can move to one state away from C 2D
because C is not having any child notes.
So C 2D in this state,
it'll say whether any other pathways are there or not.
So from D it says that unexplored question is there,
that is a e, it'll move towards E.
And again, check E is a gold straight, no.
So E is any further, you know, child notes, no.
Then it'll back to D, then D to any other state
that is unexplored, no then moves to a then A to e,
E to F like this, it traverses in a way,
in a depth first search.
First it'll go to the depth
and will do the backtrack to explore the unexplored,
you know, equations of states.
So this is how the depth first search also, uh,
you know, use this subject.
Now, this BFS and DFS is a, like a very tricky algorithm.
Suppose, uh, in various ways the, you know, uh,
the gold state may be on the shallow notes.
So suppose this is like full layer of, you know,
architecture where we are searching.
Suppose there are like hundreds of depths.
Are there, like hundred of depth is there on the hundred
of depth, the sa in the salon nodes.
If a gold state is there, then you don't need to go
for the depth D Fs.
And in case of like a DFS, the
depth node is very high.
Then like both rates are mostly on the lower side.
Then go for the depth.
So based on your like personal preference
or like personal, you know, problem you define whites,
algorithms you can use to mitigate this problem.
So DFS and DFS have been like a, uh, a part
of the computer science, uh, whole architecture
for searching techniques, uh,
for the longest period of time.
So we have been using this for a long period of time.
Now this has been useful, but it has a like massive problem.
That is, it takes huge amount of time, okay?
Uh, the space complexity is very high.
Uh, and another problem, not problem, like, uh,
optimization is um, not a thing,
but it will find you the solution that is like for you,
that's the like best part of it.
The BFS and DFS will have a solution.
Now, another thing that is the like, uh, came into play,
that is the informed search, okay?
So informed search is what along with the, each
of the state, we provide a secondary data
to make the decision better and which way it should move.
Suppose in the state, if I provide some kind of elevation,
so one of the key area, or suppose that's in north
or south, so each
of the state I'm providing north side or south side.
Now, it'll able to check, okay, A is our southern state,
that is Kerala B is our northern state.
That is the Mara Mara,
I'll be moving towards North Street.
Supposed, uh, uh, I'll be having some maybe.
So if I having that extra parameter where I'll be able
to check in these direction, I should be moving
to reach my goal fast.
So I, I am moving towards north. So one parameter maybe.
So in the informed search, in each of the state,
we provide extra parameter
and that is known as like heuristic search.
And that actually helped us to optimize this algorithm
and like a very efficient manner.
I just saw you, the map, multiple pathways are there no
multiple pathways are there in the BFS
and DFS, you can explore the pathways like this
or in DFS, the pathways will be like this,
okay?
But in heuristic, when you added information will be there
based on that, it'll reach your goal state faster.
So that is much more optimized, okay?
Now in this inform search,
we're providing the extra information
that is the heuristic hm factor
and the example being suppose in A GPS.
So you are navigating to some place
and you're basically seeing state line distances there.
That's a heuristic.
It tells you to getting closer to the distance
and even the road is curved, okay?
I'm having like this much like a time, something like that.
That is the heuristic guidelines that we are actually, uh,
able to provide from the heuristic search.
Estimated times and all. Okay?
So basic idea, I hope you understand about this uninformed,
such an informed search that is, uh, one is
we are not providing extra
parameters in the uninformed search.
We are having, uh, very, you know,
this is a good force method.
We exclude each state one by one
and we find out whether the goal state has been met or not.
The AI agent will check, okay,
we have reached our goal state,
we should stop the algorithm searching
and we provide the results.
Or maybe in the case of chess,
we have reached the goal state, okay?
Suppose I am made a move.
They have made a move and after move,
after move, wherever they have reached like gold state
winning straight for them, they'll be stopping the next, uh,
no, uh, this whole algorithm.
And they say that the final gold state has been breached
and in France, us, they'll be actually
after your move, they'll be actually observing
and showing the patterns.
Okay, if I move towards this direction,
I'll have a lower chances of winning.
So if I move towards this path where this states, okay,
I'll be having hard chance of winning.
So I'll uh, show you with a puzzle example
how these are came into play.
Okay? Now the complexity for the time complexity
and space complexity,
the uninformed search takes huge amount of time in case
of an info search, because we are adding extra parameters.
So it takes lower amount of time
and lower amount of space complexity
for your searching algorithms.
For example, being, uh, for breakfast search
or first search in on form search.
In inform search we are having a star algorithm.
We are having, we are having, uh, minimax algorithm,
we having alpha ping.
So multiple algorithms are there.
The form search, based on the case, on case basis,
which algorithm is, you know, applicable in your case.
So based use whenever informed searches involved.
If you're having small amount of P data states,
you are available, uh, then you are good to go
with the DFS and DFS
and you are having huge complex problems and all.
Suppose in a chase you can have billions of no,
no combinations of the, uh,
like different pieces in the different position.
Uh, and if you want to like, uh, go for the, like a bowl
where the winning state is there for the like a computer,
uh, that's, uh, that will be like a enormous amount of time.
You won't be able to solve this with the onion phone search.
So the complexity pathway, these are like all
relative factors where you are applying one of
or the others, okay?
So real world example means one of the algorithms,
the A studies and the both are backbone of the Google map.
Your regularly day to day, day by day you are using, okay?
Uh, theta is also shortest path finding algorithm.
A star algorithm is, uh,
finding which other path from the shortest path algorithm
out like 3, 4, 5.
So which one you should take something like that, uh,
from the external algorithm.
Now in the game, I suppose you're playing, uh, some kind
of game where, uh, two players are involved.
Chase ludo or tic-tac toe, some, uh, puzzle solving problems
and not in those things.
Also, this algorithms are very much useful.
So we are go mostly going for the Minimax algorithm
or alpha beta pruning in the game AI
and the robotics as well.
We use, uh, like various these uh, this kind algorithms
and you might have heard this, uh,
like a reinforcement learning algorithm
that is also like a derivative form
of these algorithms only.
So you go into a little bit of
this algorithm depth and we'll understand by an example,
okay?
So each of the, you know, this, uh,
AI agents will be having some kind of, uh,
parameters associated with them
and they'll be continuously checking one thing
that will be there, that is a state, state as in whether
that's a gold state or that's a non gold state, okay?
Intermediate state or in missile state, something like that.
So states can be like one variable
where you are inciting information, uh, it's initial state
or intermediate state or the gold state, fine.
Then in each of the state, what are the options
that AI agents can take with the two, you know,
going downwards, going left, going upwards.
So what are the actions they're having from
one state to another state?
They, if they want to move, like
what are the options they are having?
So they, those are the actions they're being
provided within the state and the target
that is the gold state.
If the gold state and normal state matches,
then their algorithms, uh, like stops there
and you know,
they're actually all the searching things is over.
So just the, like each of the parameters
and their working principles.
Now, initial state will be having the starting point, okay?
Actions set of possible moves from that current state
to the like available successful state
and from there more successful states
and all those would be there.
Transition model data is the new state, uh, given
that the ace have accent, some kind accent they have checked
after moving to the new state, they'll be doing
what goal test whether the goal has been reached or not.
And another thing they'll be calculating from previous state
to the current states they have moved what is the path?
So in case of like, uh, an example of being uh, you know,
this map and also what is the time they have consumed
to reach from one, uh, current portion to another portion
to reach two to uh, see an example.
Here we are having one, you know, this puzzle.
This puzzle is basically, it is a no box
where eight digits are there,
one to eight portions are there,
and your goal is to select, you know,
sequentially adding them.
And on the last portion, this blank should be there.
So you are having the options to move two
to this blank portion
or eight to slide eight to this portion, uh, middle portion
or four to this question or six to this question.
So each of the, you know, uh, state will have some kind
of options where they can move, um, left, right, or up
or down, okay?
If the blank spaces adjacent towards,
so from this portion we can see four more successive options
that we can take to like go, go
to the next no successive state.
So this is suppose our initial state.
I want to solve that puzzle.
So the successive state will be in the first, uh, no, this
state we have moved this two to the bottom end, this one.
Okay? It'll take whether that's a gold state, no.
Now secondary state, what can be done from there?
Initial question, we can move this four to the left. Okay?
There, it'll again check the gold state, no successively.
The other option, they will also explore, okay,
so moving six
and moving as well as eight,
whether they're gold state or not.
After moving this portion,
each of the state, again, they will move the blank portion.
Some, some of the stages, it'll have again some kind
of options whether states are there some substrate,
it'll again check the gold state or not.
And subsequently it'll move on
and on until they reach to the final state.
Now, in these things we can directly go
and use A-B-F-S-D-F-S Layer.
Layer. They will be actually going each of the state,
if I do this combination, combination, whether we're able
to reach the final state or not.
And finally with the B-F-S-D-S, you'll be able to find that,
but with a huge amount of,
you know, straight searching techniques.
So the combinations being we are having almost like 180 2000
possibilities this month.
So this combinations a huge amount of number.
So in this one, if we actually able to provide some kind,
you know, extra information, okay?
Uh, if you're at this state that will be better
to reach towards goal state.
So that is the goal.
What we have in our mind, so already understood this one,
like how each of the state is representing each
of the patients from here, we want to reach to the patients
where the goal state has been met.
So multiple pathways can be there,
which path is better for you?
So that is actually minimizing the time
for the you searching and getting to the goal state.
So the BFS D has already discussed, we'll go with the layer
by layer or with depth that is there.
There, okay? So there's a simple, you know, code.
Uh, each of these are actually al already uploaded
and uploaded in your LMS.
So you can, uh, go through them and pick them.
Now after this D-F-S-D-S, which are basically going layer
by layer and checking whether the full state has been met,
the inform that is the A start.
Let's just go through this thing,
okay?
In the A start, what is happening?
We are providing the extra be of information.
Now all move this one. Okay?
So suppose these are your states. S is your initial state.
F is a state where your goal state is reaching.
M is a state where the,
your goal state has been, you know, achieved.
So multiple pathways can be there from S two, you can move
to A, you can move to B, you can move to C.
Okay, A can move to D and e.
Subsequently, multiple moves are there.
Now multiple numbers hasn't been like initiate.
What are these numbers? I'll tell you.
So each of these
from s it is sewing seven.
The seven is sewing the number that is there, uh, you know,
uh, gn, gn as in estimated value,
I should be actually no, uh, uh, the cost
from this state to reach to the goal state.
So if I spend seven amount of units, okay, from a state,
if I spend seven amount of units, then I'll be able
to reach to the goal state.
That is the heuristic information I'm providing, right?
Suppose um, I want to reach to the goal state.
So it is saying seven hours of time you need, okay,
to reach to the goal state.
So one city to another city, suppose I'm traveling.
So you have a option to go to A,
that suppose is taking five, okay?
And uh, five, after reaching five A is saying
I have a goal straight of zero.
Okay? So,
and from S to B you are going like
do the calculation.
So
now for each of the state, they'll be calculating some
uh, formulation.
The initial state, the only information they're having
initial state is okay,
cost function is seven.
From S what are the states?
They can move, they can move to A, they can move to B
and they can move to C.
Okay? For each of the states, they'll be checking
what are the cost function associated with this one
for moving to a, they're having cost function,
that is the five.
And they'll be also adding this parameter.
The, the function is given here.
So you, Okay,
F is to GN plus agent.
GN is your cost
to like a move from the initial no to the current node.
So there's a cumulative value and HS heuristic value.
So what is the amount the state will, may take
to reach to the gold state?
Fine. Again, I'll repeat if is a value which we calculate
to find the minimal number
and compare which other states
where the GN is cumulative value.
That is checking whether like how much, you know, uh,
cost I have like, uh, given to reach to this state
and HN is the, that states, you know, one estimated number
to reach to the gold state.
Now just calculate this.
FNGN and of this one.
So F of M.
Now this G of M is the cost which actually used.
So cost is five cumulative cost.
The initial state from the eight reach with the five
and A is saying I have zero.
So I'll be using zero amount of, you know, cost
to reach to the goal stick.
I have a final value of five, same, I'll be going
for the B as well.
So B,
the same formula for B,
oh, press four.
Yeah. So
for movings two S two B,
we are having cost function of three.
That is same and we are having N value S one,
we are having total value S four.
Similarly, we are having C,
the function to
and C is also saying,
I'll take four amount of data
or cost to reach to the goal state.
Okay, so value four C is eight.
So among them the substrate of SABC will find
what is the minimum one.
Okay, we'll find the minimum cost B is saying
that I'll have GM plus agent.
That is the four, that is the minimum.
So we'll choose this path, okay?
So we'll have this path selected.
So S two B initially we'll select, okay,
then we'll move towards on Q
you can create, so the, to track the box
current S two B move.
Now B two, what are the states we are having?
We are having F, okay. And we are having,
we are having H we'll
calculate for each of them.
Now for uh, you know, if we are having the cost value
as eight and previous cost value of B was three,
so three plus eight, the cumulative cost towards reach
to A from initial position is B, then F
that is three plus eight.
Okay? And HN is saying that is zero.
That means that's a goal state, okay?
It is also a goal state. The cost is total 11.
Similarly, if we go to the this function,
okay, three plus five
plus zero eight is saying I'll also take one value.
What is the value we are having?
Five plus three, eight plus one, nine.
Now each of the state will be compared, okay?
Whether they have reached the minimum state or not.
Okay? Now this D should be also,
uh, like gold state.
Uh, there's a like error in the mark.
This D should be also gold state.
Now we have reached equation is path, we have searched s, b,
and then we have moved towards F.
The total cost is 11.
Now if we move towards S, B, and H, total cost is nine.
But previously in the stack you can see
there are two more parts.
If I move towards S to A, that the cost is full initially B
promised that it'll take the cost of of four
and it'll release to state.
But currently it's not fulfilling that one.
And C is also saying it'll take eight,
which is also less than this nine and 11.
So we'll backtrack again and we'll explore the A path.
So instead of choosing these three, these things,
we'll finally go backtrack and check this A path.
Now, S two A will path is
S comma A, we're discarding B for now.
Again, we'll crosscheck if we're getting some lesser value.
So A can move to D, A can move to E,
D, and E
For D, we are having that value.
That is a cumulative value.
Five plus two, seven, yeah,
zero seven.
This one will be five.
So we are going from S to A to E.
The path S to A to E, that is
five plus five, okay?
Five plus five
plus two.
We are having 12, we are having seven.
That is the least value we are offered.
I'll check from the previous states.
What is the minimum one, seven currently minimum, then H,
minimum pattern, then F, minimum pattern, C,
minimum pattern, then B already explored.
That is already checked, become false A
that pathway exploring.
So we can say if you move the path that is the
no, this one, that will be
how we being our optimal solution for the no problem.
That is the algorithm here using.
Now the final path
SA comma is the path will be
taking to reach to the goal state.
So that is the way we do actually extra value volume.
Okay, so extra one value is you're
providing what is the estimated cost, okay?
It should take to reach to the goal state, each
of the state will have some kind of value.
And again, from the initial state to the like this,
whatever the state will be traversing,
they'll be finding the cumulative cost
and will be comparing with the, you know, previous states
and all and continuously check whether you are having some
better pathways or not.
After finding the, you know, the nearest solution
and compared to the history one, there might be some other,
you know, um, better, you know, algorithm, uh,
better pathways and all.
But from the heuristic point of view estimated that is the,
that is the better path you are currently having
to reach to the goal state.
You take this path. So for reaching to gold state, from S
to gold state, I'll be moving S to A to D.
So that is the path, uh, from the heuristic point
of view S algorithm.
We actually apply that now
S server. One question here.
So can we go back to that sheet?
Yeah, Uh, yeah, yeah.
So, uh, S two A, uh, on the bottom, uh,
last which we calculated S two A,
so we'll take seven plus five, you know, sir?
Uh, five, we are not taking here S two A path S two A,
Just a second.
Uh, this is the first SE no seven, we're not,
you receive value, we only will take during
that state calculation.
This is the value of,
Okay, sir GN is cumulative value of the pathways,
whatever the, you knows you are seeing, these are the GN
and within the nodes, whatever that is mentioned
that are hn.
Yes. Got it. So we're having, uh, this five plus two,
the age values as a seven.
Seven, okay, got it. Got, okay.
Any other doubts? Uh, no sir. Thank you sir.
Uh, excuse me, sir. I have a doubt, sir. Yeah, sir.
Uh, in breath first search, it is pretty much clear that,
uh, we, uh,
the just a node is actually the neighboring node,
but in, uh, uh, depth first search,
it is very difficult to understand.
Sir, could you please, uh, explain that
Ly? Yeah, so bfs,
DFS, so let's just explore the same thing
with the BFS and DFS for this particular treatment.
Yes. So for DFS breakfast search,
what we do first we check the no first layer
of notes we are having.
Yes, we'll check whether that's a gold straight or not.
So it is a
straight, not a gold straight.
If I pop this s what are the, you know, successive, uh,
layers we'll have, we'll have A, B,
and C
will traverse through one by one.
That might be, you know, from left to right
or like right to left.
C, B, C or a bbc.
That depends upon your, you know, path
of the developing the algorithm.
Again, it'll check, uh, none of them.
Mm, Yes sir. I'll move towards one of the problem.
Okay? Then sustainably you go towards the next layer.
That is you are having D, e, f, then we are having,
uh, HH, yeah,
H and i, sir.
Okay, I, so these are the successive notes you are having.
Among this, you'll find D is a gold state.
Stop the searching here
and then provide, this is the answer that BF has got, right?
Yes. Now let's move towards layer by layer.
We searching first search the layer zero, then layer one,
then layer two, wherever we find the, like,
like moving from this direction.
So from here we'll move towards this portion.
Then again, check and again, come back to the D
and again, check we are traversing in it this
way, okay?
We're traversing in it this way.
That is the B we're talking,
Yes, sir. So, uh,
question is you start from, yes, and you go to A,
and then from Y we are moving to D, right?
So why are we going from A to B? And then B2C,
Uh, this is the breath first search.
So the algorithm dictates you to go through layer by layer,
Okay? Okay.
So you don't know,
like usually you're actually inspecting, you're able
to see these there, the path should be there,
but when you are actually searching each of the state,
you are not having any information related to the
how the state looks like.
You cannot really, cannot directly go, uh, like,
uh, make the prediction.
So the BFS says to go layer by layer and search further.
Gold state.
Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
Now, if we are moving through this one,
that is the depth.
Yes, sir. Here in the third layer, gold state is D
Uh, D is also, Yeah, F and I, right?
Sir? F it is, uh, D, f and I,
because there is no for this split after this
D zero D gold here.
Like, uh, I have,
Okay, sir, B should be gold.
Straight D should be gold
straight right.
Now, let's just check the DAFs. Fine.
So we are having this d, FS, the DFS thing is working.
We understood the BFS.
Now let's just understood it'll go from
S okay, first we have s,
s will move towards the successive layer on the left
or right, that is like algorithm, whatever you choose.
So it'll directly move to a,
okay, it'll take, go straight or not.
It is not a gold state.
Then a to again, left hand side,
whatever the successive China notice there
d to move towards D.
So D is a gold state, so it'll
stop it searching and give you the answer.
It should take the path.
SA, d, okay, fine. So there's the D.
Now suppose you'll be having one confusion.
What, what if the D is not a gold?
Hypothetically, think about this.
D is not a gold street right now.
What will be happening to the traverses?
How this traverses actually happens.
So first it'll go to a A
to D, okay?
This is the path we're taking.
Suppose this is not a gold straight suppose let's just thing
that F is a gold straight right now it has no child notes.
D is having no child notes
to it cannot go like further depth.
It'll move towards the upper layer.
Again, it'll move to a
and it'll check whether A is having, uh, other, you know,
depth nodes where the depth
of search hasn't actually checked.
So A, a D, then again, it'll move to A,
okay, then it'll move to E.
Okay? You'll have E is having two notes, two child notes.
So J and K as we are going through,
searching from the left side of the node.
First from the depth side, so from E to J
first, okay, we'll add the J.
Now J doesn't have any child node.
It'll move towards, again, upper no layer, that is the E,
and check whether any child node is there or not.
It is having K, again, it'll move to K,
K moving upwards.
Then it is going downwards to k,
K is also explored.
So there is no goal state here.
Now, once the K is explored, it'll again move to E, okay?
Check whether the state is satisfactory is not, no,
it is already explored.
There is not having any more child
which needs to be explored.
So E will again go to a, okay,
this is one after one other state.
We're going S-A-D-A-E, J-E-K-E-A.
Then moving traverse.
So from there to we move to A,
A is having no more chance to explore.
Then again, it'll go to S. Okay?
Then S two will be going to B then B to F.
So this is how depth for search works.
Fine will
traverse one
after another layer in the depth, we are finding the end
of the nodes, and if that's not a goal, like a goal state,
then we'll, we'll traverse back to the upper node, okay?
Then we'll explore other trials in the depth
and we'll repeat this procedure till we traverse from all
of the nodes until we are finding the goal state.
That is the depth P search, yes, no. Yes, sir.
Okay. Now you understood this
searching algorithm, I guess the A star one right now,
this A star and D having like might have heard
that is one of the, this one
and having like a lot of popul where like
multiple parts are there, it is like very
effective in finding the shortest part algorithm,
like shortest part, whatever multiple parts are there.
And among those, what is the shortest?
So this algorithm is used in that one
atrial algorithm uses the most optimal one.
Suppose you are having, like,
you want travel from one question to other question.
The path might be like totally, you know, bad
or traffic is huge.
Uh, the digital algorithm won't bother
about the other parameters.
It'll find you like, this is the sort path you take the path
you don't see the other parameters where it is, uh,
making the, you know, algorithm much more smarter.
A algorithm where you can put more data into it.
Suppose the traffic, uh, the road condition, uh, the other,
uh, parameters, okay?
Uh, then it'll give you the answer.
So you should take this path or not.
That is the ATA algorithm versus the digital algorithm.
Now the pro for Thera algorithm, so it is, uh, like a,
a ed to find the best path.
So you'll have like, uh, the best, whatever the cost
of the path is there, it'll be able to find, okay, uh,
guaranteed to find a path if one exists.
Uh, speed is there like high, high efficiencies there.
If you are having like hundreds of millions of, you know,
modes of states are there, that is there.
Now the cons is a memory heavy
because, uh, it needs to compare with the older states
and all with the, like, whatever the, you know,
it's driving from one node to another node, another layer,
and continuously checking
and comparing from the older states whether
that is optimal or not.
If that older state is optimal,
then it skips the current one and goes to optimal
and expand that one
and checks whether the optimal, uh,
you know, path is there or not.
So that is the way this thing actually works. Okay?
So a study is used mostly in robotics maps, video games
that we all discussed.
And one thing I'll also tell you is the, a little bit,
because we are running out of time
Minimax algorithm, uh, supposed to take two,
you are very familiar with this game.
So we, in a box of nine, we, uh, do the cross
and, you know, circles to play a game.
If like a diagonally
or you know, particular horizontally, successive three, uh,
symbols are there, then one particular party means that,
so these kind of algorithms are also being solved
with the like, uh, one successive, you know,
derived algorithm from theta that is the MinMax algorithm,
but each of the, like a successive state is having some kind
of values associated with them.
So the, you know, as a, like a player, a I intend
to move or, uh, you know, uh,
there should be one initiated value, I'll be increasing
that value and the opponent, the computer will be trying
to decrease the value that is known as MinMax algorithm.
So similarly, it works in a particular like similar state,
such algorithms where, uh, the computer tries
to minimize the value, okay?
Or the heuristic function, whatever you are having,
if it is like too clear game
and uh, the user tries to always win, increase the value.
So it is like one of the thing is also there,
uh, I won't be searching
because of the time limitation for this one.
So there are multiple, you know,
this heuristic based algorithms say a start, uh,
then we have he climbing algorithm.
We are having alpha, beta ping.
We are having, uh, this, uh, minimax algorithms,
so multiple algorithms related to, you know, this, uh,
problem solving where like, uh,
we're not going like a basic on a loop, something like
that on a particular pattern,
but we're actually trying
to make the system a little bit smarter
so it can give you better answers.
So that is the searching techniques for ai.
Now, today's task that will be like in the second half,
you are actually supposed to do, uh, these all of the,
you know, uh, these things are like, uh, this, uh,
PPDs are already uploaded.
You can go through them, you can go through the codes also,
uh, actually there
and you are required to actually implement one,
a algorithm from Python grid.
You need to make for like problem solving
and uh, it is already given.
So you can tweak a little bit
and you can also compare that one with the bs,
how this study is actually solving that one.
So this is the task. So, uh, again, one week
of time you will be having afternoon season, uh, you are
requested to join, but it's not a mandatory, you're having,
you know, expertise in the Python
and all you can directly go and solve these things.
And uh, I think that is all, uh, for today's class.
So this is also uploaded in the, you know,
yeah.
Any questions and anything?
Yes, sir. One question, sir. Yeah, sir.
This, uh, robotics is all about slam, right?
So, but how will we,
And slam slam is a different thing.
Slam is where, uh,
you are doing the computer vision algorithm things where uh,
it is able to actually create the 3D point cloud,
so it is able to judge the distance, depth,
these parameters, and based on
that you can apply the algorithm
where like if the depth is there, like, uh, how the like,
uh, you know, robot as an initial state,
you provide a gold state, you do this job.
Now it has to know some of the features
where the surrounding information can be gathered.
So some of the information, if you provide,
then it'll be able to make some judgment.
These are the actions I should be,
or I'll be able to take, suppose it needs to go
to the downstairs and take a like a for me.
So first it needs to like go straight, go to the door,
like take a, like a stairs and all.
So how it'll know like in which way the like, uh, it needs
to move or STA stairs is there, so depth is there.
So these are actually done through the slam algorithm along
with Slam, we are having, uh, a multi-use stereo algorithm.
We are having, uh, separate other algorithms as well.
I'm not able to report. So that, that is like one
of the thing where it is able to
observe the surroundings, not take the,
Okay, so it is only for, uh, perception part
Percept. Yeah, yeah, yeah,
exactly is the, okay.
But thanks.
Yeah. Uh, if no one is having any questions,
so I'll be actually closing this season
and we'll be meeting, we're not actually required
to actually sit in the, you know, season if you're actually,
uh, having the expertise and everything
and uh, again, seven days will uh, be the time
you are required to complete this as an assignment
and needs to submit it. Yes.
I have one more request, sir.
Yeah, so Actually while I, uh, while I was listening
to the class, there was a certain power cut
and again, I rejoined
after 10 minutes, something, 15 minutes that was there.
I thought better to inform you.
Yeah, fine. That's fine. Sorry, one more thing.
Once you log in, the at will be, that's not an issue.
Okay, sir? Yeah, everything is already uploaded in the uh,
Processor.
You can also find the lecture as well. Yes, sir.
Sir, by Lab
Says, uh, we have to take uh,
first two points, right, sir?
First, First two bullet points
we have to execute, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So by when we are
to submit this assignment, sir,
By next week, Okay,
On a weekly, we try
to actually complete these things and submit it.
Yeah, sure sir.
After like, uh, next lab we'll be having on grade lab
combining all of the labs, previous labs.
So that will be there.
And for the grade lab also, we'll be having this, uh,
you know, seven days of time.
Thank you sir. So, um,
so last time actually requested on the grade lab,
what are the dates will be there.
If you can show up those calendar, that will be helpful.
Uh, uh, like, uh, the thing is that currently, uh, the,
uh, semester just ended.
I'm occupied a lot of work
because we need to publish the results
and all not having time,
but it is in my mind, so as soon as like, uh, that is why,
uh, we are also saying that on the grade lab, you don't need
to actually sitting in the lab
and like, like doing all the experiment and everything.
We'll be giving the time of like seven days until then, uh,
till that time we'll be having the problem.
We'll be executing, it'll be submitted.
I don't think like, you know, dates will be an issue
for you and ah, okay.
Okay, understood. Okay, because earlier it was mentioned
that it'll be on the same day. That is the reason
I asked. Take
the grade level on the same day
and it on the same day, but there Correct.
Lot of the students, a lot of
The Right, right. Many people
might be
So that that's a problem.
All those things there, that is the reason
Seven time will be there.
So I don't think, uh, there should be any more problem
for the grade lab, like attending the
grade lab, solving the grade lab.
Yeah. Right, right. Many people are, um, like here,
everyone is, uh, yeah, the working profession.
And so some of them have offices on the Saturday
also. That is, yeah.
Yeah. That, that is what, And um, the last, uh,
assignment, I think the date, due date is on the third
or fifth, something they have given.
I think fifth. They have extended to fifth.
Okay. Okay. You can take the date
And for this assignment it'll be next, next Saturday.
That Is on sixth.
Sixth, Sixth, okay. Understood.
Okay. That, that is helpful.
Okay. Thank, thank sir Very much.
Do we submit Sir? Sir? Thank you sir.
It's ans there's a link to submit.
Okay. Thank you sir.